Let's now formalize
the Naive Bayes classifier.
In classification,
we have a document d and a class c.
And our goal is to compute
the probability for
each class of its conditional
probability given a document.
And we're going to see that the,
we're going to use this probability
to pick the best class.
Now how do we computer the probability
of a class give a document?
By Bayes rule, this is equal to the
probability of a document given the class
times the probability of a class over
the probability of the document.
Let's see how to use
that in the classifier.
The best class, the maximum a posteriori
class, the class that we're looking for
to assign this document to,
is out of all classes
the one that maximizes the probability
of that class given the document.
So we're looking for
the class whose probability,
given the document, Is greatest.
By Bay's Rule, That's the same,
whichever class maximizes,
probability of c, given d.
Also maximizes this equation,
the probability of d given c.
Probability of the class,
over the probability of the document.
And, as is traditional in
Bayesian classification,
which ever class maximizes this equation,
also maximizes this equation.
What we've done here is we've
dropped the denominator.
Crossed out the denominator.
Why is it okay to cross
out the denominator d?
Probability of d is how
likely the document is.
Now if I give you a document and I say,
which of these 10 classes does this
document belong to and for each of these
classes, I'm computing the probability
of the document given the class.
The probability of the class and
the probability of the document.
The probability of the document
is identical for all 10 classes.
For each class, one more time I have to
compute the probability of the document.
And that means that if
I'm comparing 10 things,
each of which is divided by
probability of the document.
The probability of the document is
a constant, and I can eliminate that.
So, the most likely, C map,
is that class which maximizes
the product of two probabilities.
The probability of the document given
the class, we'll call that the likelihood.
And the probability of the class,
we'll call that the prior.
Prior probability of the class.
So the most likely class is the one
that maximizes the product of these two
probabilities.
The probability of the class will turn
out to be relatively simple to computer.
What do I mean by the probability
of a document given the class?
What do I mean to say, this particular
movie review, how likely is it,
given the class positive.
It seems like a very complicated and
confusing thing to compute.
And one way to operationalize
that is to say,
let's represent the document by a whole
set of features, x1 through xn.
So when I say the probability of
a document given a class, I'm going to say
all that means is the probability of
a vector of features given the class.
P of d given c.
We're going to represent that probability
by the joint probability of x1, x2,
up through xn given the class.
In other words,
we're representing this document d
as a set of features x1 through xn.
That still doesn't tell me how to compute
this probability but it's a start.
So let's talk about these two pieces now.
How do I compute probability of a class?
Well, really, that's just asking
how often does this class occur?
Are positive reviews much more
common than negative reviews?
Is Madison a much more frequent author?
So to decide computing
the probability of a class
can be done just by counting relative
frequencies in some corpus or data set.
So the probability of a class
is relatively easy to compute.
What about the likelihood of the document,
of these features in a document,
given the class.
Well there's a lot of parameters for
this probability.
There's, if there's N different features,
and each of them has a certain length,
that's a lot of parameters that have to be
computed, and we have to compute
them one for each class.
So that's far too many parameters
that we could possibly compute.
We could only estimate at this number if
we had a huge number of training examples
and we usually don't have such
an enormous amount of training examples.
So we're going to make some simplifying
assumptions in the naive based classifier
to make this computation more possible.
The first simplifying
assumption we're going to make
is called the bag of words assumption.
And we're going to assume that the
position in the document doesn't matter.
So, this is what I gave you
the intuition of a few slides ago.
The position of the word in the document
whether it's the first word or
the seventh word the 150th
word isn't going to matter.
All we care about is which word or
which feature occurs.
And the second thing we're going to,
the second assumption we're going to make
Is we're going to assume that
the different features, X1, X2, X3,
that their probabilities
are independent given the class.
So that whether one feature
occurs given a class and
whether another feature occurs given a
class are independently going to be true.
And of course, both of these assumptions
are incorrect simplifying assumptions.
They're absolutely wrong.
They're terribly completely not true.
Nonetheless, by making these
incorrect simplifying assumptions,
we can make our problem so much simpler,
that in practice, we're able to solve
the problem with a high degree of
accuracy, despite the simplifications.
So, the result of these two simplifying
assumptions is we're going to represent
the probability, the joint probability of
a whole set of features x 1 through x 1,
conditioned on a class as the product of a
whole bunch of independent probabilities.
Probability of x1 given the class,
probability of x2 given the class,
probability of x3 given the class,
and so on.
Up to probability of xn given the class.
We're just going to
multiply them all together.
We're not going to care about x1,
which position it occurred in,
all we care about is that it was
this particular order feature.
And we're not going to care about
the dependencies between x1 and x2.
In other words, in order to compute our
simplifying Naive Bayes assumption,
to compute the most likely class
by multiplying a likelihood,
the probability of a whole
joint string of features,
times a prior probability of a class.
We're going to simplify that and
say that the best class by the Naive Bayes
assumption is that class that maximizes
the prior probability of the class.
So that's the same but now more simply,
we're just going to multiply for
every feature and the set of features,
the probability of that feature.
Given the class.
Much simpler equation.
So now looking specifically at text,
first we're going to assume
we're going to look at all word
positions in a text document.
So we have a text document and
it has a hundred words in it.
So for position of word number one,
position number two,
position number three,
we're going to look at all the classes.
And for each class, we're going to say
what's the probability of the class.
And then for each class, we're going to
walk through every position in the text.
And for each position, we're going to look
at the word in that position and ask,
what's its probability given
the class I'm looking at?
So we'll do this for class 1,
we'll compute P P of class 1,
times the product over all the I's
of p of word 1 given class 1.
So we'll compute that and
then we'll do the same thing for
class 2 we'll compute p of class 2, and
then the product over all positions
i of the p of word i given class 2.
And then we're going to pick whichever
of these two is the highest.
If this is higher, we're going to pick
class 2 and assign it to the document.
If this is higher,
we'll assign class 1 to the document.
And of course I've shown you
this with just two classes, but
in general this is true for
any number of classes.
So that's the formalization of
the Naive Bayes Classifier.